Amazon Web Services

If you want to receive alerts when your containers, 
managed with Amazon ECS need to scale up or down, you 
can use Amazon CloudWatch. You can monitor average, 
and aggregate CPU and memory utilization of running 
tasks as grouped by Task Definition, Service or Cluster 
through Amazon CloudWatch. 

AWS Storage
Data stored in blocks, blocks are stored on a volume 
and attached to a single instance. 
File Store: Data is stored as separate files with a 
series of directories. 
Data is stored in a file system.

Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3)
Uses buckets (unique name)
There are multiple storage classes:
Main difference is availability.
Data stored high frequency: Standard and Reduced Redundancy 
Storage (RRS) 

Each Bucket has set access controls (written in JSON). 
Permissions can be very specific using policy conditions 
Access Control Lists: List of users for people outside 
of the AWS account (public access). 

Infrequently Accessed: STANDARD-IA and ONE ZONE I-A 
One ZONE-IA does not replicate data across multiple 
availability zones 
ONE ZONE-IA is cheaper than STANDARD-IA

Intelligent Tiering
Used for unpredictable access patterns.
Automatically moves data into appropriate tier based 
on access pattern 

Before selecting data: How critical is my data, how 
often will i need to access it? 
How reproducible is the data?

Data Management:
allows for multiple versions of the same object to 
exist 
Versioning is not enabled by default

AWS CloudTrail keeps track of all API calls. It stores 
them in S3 Buckets 
Amazon Non-relational databases: No table schema required; 
fully supports unstructured data 
Amazon Dynamo DB (Speed & Performance): Good for high 
volume, internet traffic. 
Amazon Dynamo DB supports both document and key store 
object, runs as a web service; flexible service 
Amazon Elasticache: A managed data cache service built 
from the open source redis and memchaced 
Cache: Fast access copy of data that is being read 
a lot (values speed over persistence) 
REDIS: complex data types: Strings, HashMaps. Lists, 
Sets, Sorted Sets, BitMaps replicate your cached data. 
MEMCACHE: Simplest model possible. Ability to scale 
out/ in adding or removing nodes as demand 
on your system increases/ decreases. 
Amazon Neptune: Lots of queries and lookups. Optimized 
for storing data relationships, native graph database, 
AWS graph database engine. 

Amazon EC2 Instance Store Volumes: They are all available 
for all instance types. Instance store 
volumes offer very high speed I/O speed. The storage 
cost is included in the EC2 instance price. 
Amazon does not use a file system. It is an object 
store with buckets and objects. 

Descriptions of non-relational databases: Each non-relational 
database table must include a primary key; They can 
scale faster than relational databases. 
Non-relational databases scale faster than relational 
databases, and can store unstructured data, which allows 
multiple data types to be stored within the same table 
without updating table fields. While relational tables 
are able to build relationships between different tables 
based on many different factors, non-relational database 
tables all include a primary key which is essential 
to performing table operations such as create, update, 
read, and delete. 

ELB types
Network load balancer: used for ultra high performance 
for your applications 
Operate at the connection (transport level) 
External: public IP address , retrieves traffic from 
the internet and distributes the instances 


AWS elastic beanstalk: manage service to help deploy 
web applications. Free to use, charging for resources 

AWS Lambda: Allows you to run your code server less 
EC2 charges compute time per hour or second. AWS lambda 
charges for compute time 
Highly scalable server less service 

Virtual Private Code: 
VOC virtual private cloud is a core building block 
for designing highly available, fault tolerant domains 
IGW: internet gateway
VGW: virtual private gateway

ROUTE 52: highly available DNS offered by AWS 
Amazon S3 : fully managed object store service; highly 
available, highly durable; Objects stored in 99.9999999% 
Availability of s3 market objects is 99.99%
S3 buckets. Objects are stored in S3 buckets
Data can be uploaded into the bucket or folders within 
the bucket 

Storage classes: Standrad, standard - IA, Intelligent 
tiering; 
frequently / reduced redundancy storage
infrequently: Standard-IA and one zone IA 
ONE zone IA is more cost effective than standard IA 

Security: 
bucket policies: impose a set of specific bucket.
Constructed as JSON policies
Only access control access to data in the associated 
bucket. 
ACLS only control access for users outside of your 
aws account 

S3 is perfect for storing static content
Any object can be made public and referenced via URL 
Entire static websites can be hosted on S3 

Integration of service integration:
Elastic blocks service: EBS volumes perform snapshot 
backups which are stored on S3 
AWS cloudtrail: cloudtrail log files are automatically 
send and stored within preconfigured s3 buckets 
amazon cloudfront: s3 can be us a cloud front

Domain: cloud concept, security, technology, billing 
and pricing 

Amazon Glacier: does not provide instant access to 
your data 
Storage costs are lower than amazon s3
 vaults act a container for glacier archives
Vaults are geographical 
archives can be any object similarly to s3 
glacier dashboard allows you to create vaults

Data encryption: data is encrypted by default using 
the AES 256 encryption algorithm 

Availability zones: physical data centers of AWS 
Compute, storage, network and database resources are 
provisioned within these aws 

Region is a collection of availability zones that are 
georgraphically located close to one another. Regions 
are distributed globally for maximum customer base. 
Regions act independently of each other 
using multiple regions allows an additional level of 
availability 

Region & AZ Naming conventions
region names can be represented as a friendly name, 
or a code name 

Operational Excellence: running and monitoring systems 
to help optimize and deliver values to the business 
and to aid in supporting, improving, and maintaining 
processes and procedures 

Relational DB 
RDBMS / ACID engine 
Supports complex relationships between tables
Uses the structured query language 
Generally accessed via a persistent network connection 
Uses a schema to define tables 
Generally provide a processing engine within the database 
to manage processing of select, create, replace, update, 
delete statements 

Non Relational
Simple Document or key store
Can store many different data types 
Generally accessed via RESTFUL HTTP 
No Schema required 
Every table must have a primary key 
Scales fast, & lighter in design 


Amazon RDS makes it possible to scale components of 
the service. This means you can increase or decreases 
specific database configurations independently (you 
can alter memory, processor size, allocated storage, 
IOPS individually) 

Which AWS database service offers a non-relational 
database optimized for storing and navigating billions 
of relationships with millisecond query latency: Amazon 
Neptune. Amazon Neptune is a graph database service 
that makes it easy to build and run applications that 
need to use a lot of queries and lookups to quickly 
visualize data. Now graphing data can require a complex 
number of connection strings and related queries. 

DynamoDB is an ideal database to meet all but which 
of the following requirements: Your application needs 
a database to scale rapidly and handle millions of 
transactions each minute. Complex join operations are 
one of the key requirements that make relational databases 
preferable to non-relational databases. If complex 
joins are a commonplace issue, then DynamoDB would 
not be ideal. 

Which statements accurate descriptions of relational 
databases 
they include a built in processing engine
they allow temporary or permaneat views and table functions 
Relational databases used structured tables, and traditionally 
support Structured Query Language. They also use a 
schema to define tables within a database, and a key 
difference between a non-relational database and a 
relational one is the data processing engine, which 
increases the 'footprint' of a relational database. 


— Amazon Storage —
Which Network connections are used by AWS snowball 
to minimize data transfer times? 
- Both RJ45 & SFP+ with either a fiber optic or copper 
interface 

Use cases for Amazon EC2 Instance Store Volumes: Temporary 
Data, High-speed cache or data buffer, Storing data 
replicated across a fleet of load-balanced EC2 instances 

If you have data that needs to remain persistent, or 
that needs to be accessed and shared by others, then 
EC2 instance store volumes are not recommended. If 
you need to use block-level storage and want a quick 
and easy method to maintain persistenc, then there 
is another block level service that is recommended. 
This being the elastic block store service. 

How is every object stored in S3 Standard Storage replicated 
to increase data durability? 
Multiple copies are stored in different availability 
zones within the same region as the original object 

When using a tape gateway in AWS Storage gateway, files 
are accessible unless they are stored within a archived 
tape, in which case they will need to be retrieved 
first, which may take several hours 

Amazon Glacier resource is analogous to the S3 bucket: 
vault 

Potential size range for individual objects stored 
in Amazon s3: 0 bytes to 5 TB 

Regarding the Amazon CloudFront, an RTMP distribution 
must use an Amazon S3 bucket as the origin: TRUE 

A user has launched an EC2 instance from an instance-store 
backed AMI. If the user reboots the instance, what 
will happen to the data on the instance store volume? 
The data will be preserved 

Amazon s3 provides highly scalable durable object storage 
in the cloud. 

For web distributions in Amazon Cloudfront, your origin 
can be either an Amazon S3 bucket or an HTTP server. 

ou are using a large fleet of instances to support 
a surge in activity, and need a storage service that 
can manage a large number of operations from different 
instances across multiple availability zones simultaneously. 
Which AWS service would meet your requirements? Amazon 
EFS 

Multiple Amazon EC2 instances can access an Amazon 
EFS file system at the same time, providing a common 
data source for workloads and applications running 
on more than one instance or server. 
Amazon EFS file systems store data and metadata across 
multiple Availability Zones in an AWS Region. EFS file 
systems can grow to petabyte scale, drive high levels 
of throughput, and allow massively parallel access 
from Amazon EC2 instances to your data. 

Which type of EBS volume is also suited for use as 
a boot volume? General Purpose (SSD) volumes are suitable 
for a broad range of workloads, including small-to-medium-sized 
databases, development and test environments and boot 
volumes. 

Server-side encryption provide in Amazon S3?
Server side encrpytion protects data at rest using 
Amazon S3 managed encrpytion keys (SSE-s3) 

Amazon EBS: 
EBS automatically encrypts volumes restored from encrypted 
snapshots 
EBS automatically encrypts snapshots of encrypted volumes 
Snapshots that are taken from encrypted volumes are 
automatically encrypted. Volumes that are created from 
encrypted snapshots are also automatically encrypted. 
Your encrypted volumes and any associated snapshots 
always remain protected. For more information, see 
Amazon EBS Encryption. 

You have decided to use AWS Storage Gateway, but want 
all data within the gateway to be retrievable to on-premise 
employees with minimal latency. Which type of storage 
gateway would best suit you? 
Stored volume gateway 
Both file gateways and cached volume gateways provide 
local caches to store frequently accessed data. Stored 
volume gateways keep all files locally, so all stored 
data can be retrieved with low latency, and so is the 
best option in this case. 

Amazon EFS stores its data: A File System. 

A user has created a bucket named Cloudacademy.com. 
The user is trying to access the bucket with the URL 
http://cloudacademy.s3.amazonaws.com. What will it 
return?: An error 
The S3 bucket name "Cloudacademy.com" has a capital 
letter. When the user tries to access it with Cloudacademy.com, 
the browser will change it to http://cloudacademy.s3.amazonaws.com. 
Since a bucket with a small name does not exist, it 
will return an error. 

How can AWS snowball handle petabyte-scale data migration? 
Data is sent via physical appliance sent to you by 
AWS. Snowball uses secure appliances to transfer large 
amounts of data into and out of the AWS cloud; this 
is fast and cheaper than high-speed Internet. 

A user has launched a dedicated EBS-backed instance. 
You are curious where the EBS volume for this instance 
will be created.  
Which statement is correct about the EBS volume's creation? 
The dedicated instances are Amazon EC2 instances that 
run in a Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) on hardware that 
is dedicated to a single customer. When a user launches 
an Amazon EBS-backed dedicated instance, the EBS volume 
does not run on single-tenant hardware. 

When using Amazon Glacier's bulk retrieval option, 
which of the following is correct? 
Amazon Glacier takes 3-5 hours to retrieve data. 
Amazon Glacier is an extremely low-cost storage service 
that provides secure and durable storage for data archiving 
and backup. To keep costs low, Amazon Glacier is optimized 
for data that is infrequently accessed and for which 
retrieval times of several hours are suitable. The 
standard retrieval option, which is the default option, 
takes 3-5 hours to complete. The other options are 
expedited, which downloads a small amount of data (250 
MB maximum) in 5 minutes, and bulk, which downloads 
large amounts of data (petabytes) in 5-12 hours. 

In s3, which of the following refers to the object 
metadata? 
A set of key-value pairs that describe an object 
Each of the s3 object consists of object dat and meta 
data. The data portion is opaque to Amazon S3. The 
metadata is a set of name value pairs that describe 
the object. The metadata distinguishes the object from 
a regular file as it is additional information stored 
along with the object data. The metadata can be the 
object name, version ID, created data, Content-type, 
etc. 

Amazon Machine Image: templates of pre-configured EC2 
instances which allow you to quickly launch a new EC2 
instance based on the configuration within the AMI 

AMI includes operating system, and applications. (Linux, 
Red Hat, Windows). 

Micro instances: low cost (low traffic websites) 

FPGA; Massive parallel processing power (genomics and 
financial computing) 

Ephemeral means temporary storage (similar to RAM) 
/ Ephemeral storage or instance backed storage 

Persistent storage is available by attaching elastic 
block storage EBS volumes. 
EBS is separate from EC2 
EBS creates data replication to ensure reliability. 
Duplicate data to neighboring hosts 

AWS fargate: engine used to enable ECS to run containers 
without having to manage and provision instances and 
clusters for contains 
Docker: auomate installation and distribution of applications 
inside Linux containers 
Containers: hold everything that an application requires 
to enable it to run from within its isolated container 
package. (libraries, code, system tools, run time, 
etc.) 
AWS CloudWatch; monitor metrics against your containers 
and your cluster 

Elastics beanstalk: an application is a collection 
of different elements: 
environments, environment configurations, and application 
versions 

Amazon S3 you may for only the storage you consume 
Amazon EBS you are charged for the storage provisioned 
to you per month 

Amazon S3 stands for Amazon Simple Storage Service: 
not good for heavy read and write access at the same 
time. better for large files, images, videos, static 
websites, backup archives. Netflix uses it for data 
streaming 

Amazon EBS : Elastic block storage. Optimized for low 
latency, access, and when fast, concurrent read and 
write operations are needed. Provides persistent block 
storage volumes for use with a single EC2 instance. 

Amazon Elastic File Storage: optimized for low latency. 
supports access from multiple EC2 instances at once. 

Authentication: defines who you are, presenting your 
identity; verifying that you are who you say you are. 
Authorization: occurs after authentication; establishes 
what you can access at what level (access level privileges 
and permissions) 

Amazon Inspector Service is an automated security assessment 
service that can be setup to run within your AWS account. 
Inspector can assess security vulnerabilities and compliance 
issues in applications you’ve installed on EC2 instances, 
which are collectively called an assessment target 

Amazon WebApplication Firewall sits between a web application 
and the web client that’s requesting content from 
it. A web application is simply a remote program that 
is accessed over the internet. A web client can be 
a web browser or another application. 

SQL Injection are performed by inserting and SQL query 
via a client into an entry field to the remote application 
database where it is then executed. 

Amazon’s CloudFront is Amazon’s content delivery 
network. 

Amazon Firewall is the intermediate agent. It accepts 
and filters requests from the application load balancer. 
Web Application firewall provides a flexible, managed 
service to protect your websites and applications. 
The Web Application Firewall works well with Amazon 
cloudFront and other services such as Amazon Application 
Load Balncer to filter both Http and Https traffic 
