The mortgage bond was different in important ways from 
old-fashioned corporate and government bonds. A mortgage 
bond wasn't a single giant loan for an explicit fixed 
term. A mortgage bond was a claim on the cash flows 
from a pool of thousands of individual home mortgages. 
These cash flows were always problematic, as the borrowers 
had the right to pay off any time they pleased. This 
was the single biggest reason that bond investors initially 
had been reluctant to invest in home mortgage loans: 
Mortgage borrowers typically repaid their loans only 
when interest rates fell, and they could refinance 
more cheaply, leaving the owner of a mortgage bond 
holding a pile of cash, to invest at lower interest 
rates. The investor in home loans didn't know how long 
his investment would last, only that he would get his 
money back when he least wanted it. (17) 

When Steve Eisman stumbled into this new, rapidly growing 
industry of specialty finance, the mortgage bond was 
about to be put to a new use: making loans that did 
not qualify for government guarantees. The purpose 
was to extend credit to less and less creditworthy 
homeowners, not so that they might buy a house but 
so that they could cash out whatever equity they had 
in the house they already owned. (18) 

Any business where you can sell a product and make 
money without having to worry how the product performs 
is going to attract sleazy people. That was the seamy 
underbelly of the good idea. (19) 

How do you make poor people feel wealthy when wages 
are stagnant? You give them cheap loans. (22) 

Ponzi scheme: To maintain the fiction that they were 
profitable enterprises, they needed more and more capital 
to create more and more subprime loans. (23) 

— Do not make loans to people who cannot repay them 

How did the big short happen? : Don't make loans to 
people who can't repay them. Instead it learned a complicated 
one: You can keep on making these loans, just don't 
keep them on your books. Make the loans, then sell 
them off to the fixed income departments of big Wall 
Street investment banks, which will in turn package 
them into bonds and sell them to investors. Long Beach 
Savings was the first existing bank to adopt what was 
called the "originate and sell" model. This proved 
such a hit--Wall Street would buy your loans, even 
if you would not (29) 

By early 2005 all the big Wall Street investment banks 
were deep into the subprime game. Bear Stearns, Merrill 
Lynch, Goldman Sachs, and Morgan Stanley all had what 
they termed "shelves" for their subprime wares, with 
strange names like HEAT and SAIL and GSAMP, that made 
it a bit more difficult for the general audience to 
see that these subprime bonds were being underwritten 
by Wall Street's biggest names. (29) 

They didn't keep the loans but sold them to Goldman 
Sachs and Morgan Stanley and Wells Fargo and the rest, 
which packaged them into bonds and sold them off. The 
end buyers of subprime mortgage, he assumed, were just 
"dumb money." He'd study up on them, too, but later. 
(33) 

Credit Default Swaps: Insurance policy, typically on 
a corporate bond, with a semi annual premium payments 
and a fixed term. 
These were convenient because you knew exactly how 
much you could lose, but your gains could be exponential 
“if I bought a credit default swap, my downside was 
defined and certain, and the upside was many multiples 
on it” 

Dr Mike Burry -> neurology resident (investments on 
the side) 

He used no leverage and avoided shorting stocks. He 
was doing nothing more promising than buying common 
stocks and nothing more complicated than sitting in 
a room reading financial statements. For roughly $100 
a year he became a subscriber to 10-K Wizard. Scion 
Capital's decision-making apparatus consisted of one 
guy in a room, with the door closed and the shades 
drawn, poring over publicly available information and 
data on 10-K Wizard. He went looking for court rulings, 
deal completions, or government regulatory changes--anything 
that might change the value of a company. (44) 

"I don't dig into companies looking to short them, 
generally. I want the upside to be much more than the 
downside, fundamentally." He also didn't like the idea 
of taking the risk of selling a stock short, as the 
risk was, theoretically, unlimited. It could only fall 
to zero, but it could rise to infinity. (46) 

*** How does a hedge fund compare to a potential ponzi 
scheme? If there is a one year commitment to some hedge 
funds before you can withdraw your funds, how does 
this work? 

*** They would target lower income people, uneducated 
and essentially screw them over 

FICO scores: measure the creditworthiness of individual 
borrowers. 
Highest is rated at 850, lowest was 300, Median is 
723 
It can be rigged. Take out multiple credit card loans, 
and immediately pay them back 
FICO scores were mistreated. FiCO score of 550 was 
certain to default and should never be lent money in 
the first place 

Moody's and S&P asked the loan packagers not for a 
list of the FICO scores of all the borrowers but for 
the average FICO score of the pool. To meet the rating 
agencies' standards--to maximize the percentage of 
triple-A-rated bonds created from any given pool of 
loans--the average FICO score of the borrowers in the 
pool needed to be around 615. There was more than one 
way to arrive at that average number. And therein lay 
a huge opportunity. A pool of loans composed of borrowers 
all of whom had a FICO score of 615 was far less likely 
to suffer huge losses than a pool of loans composed 
of borrowers half of whom had FICO scores of 550 and 
half of whom had FICO scores of 680. A person with 
a FICO score of 550 was virtually certain to default 
and should never have been lent money in the first 
place. But the hole in the rating agencies' models 
enabled the loan to be made, as long as a borrower 
with a FICO score of 680 could be found to offset the 
deadbeat, and keep the average 
at 615. (82) 

Cheating 
Thin File FICO score : short credit history (Creditors 
used this to their advantage) :: 
Rating agency mistakes / bribing . Game the rating 
agencies models 
Thick Fil FICO score (80-83) 

Subprime Mortgage Bonds 

The hunting license had a name: an ISDA. They were 
the same agreements, dreamed up by the International 
Swaps and Derivatives Association, that Mike Burry 
secured before he bought his first credit default swaps. 
If you got your ISDA, you could in theory trade with 
the big Wall Street firms, if not as an equal then 
at least as a grown-up. The trouble was that, despite 
their success running money, they still didn't have 
much of it. Worse, what they had was their own. Inside 
Wall Street they were classified, at best, as "high 
net worth individuals." (98) 

Overpriced bonds were not "expensive" overpriced bonds 
were "rich," which almost made them sound like something 
you should buy. The floors of subprime mortgage bonds 
were not called floors--or anything else that might 
lead the bond buyer to form any sort of concrete image 
in his mind--but tranches. The bottom tranche--the 
risky ground floor--was not called the ground floor 
but the mezzanine, or the mezz, which made it sound 
less like a dangerous investment and more like a highly 
prized seat in a domed stadium. A CDO composed of nothing 
but the riskiest, mezzanine layer of subprime mortgages 
was not called a subprime-backed CDO but a "structured 
finance CDO." "There was so much confusion about the 
different terms," said Charlie. "In the course of trying 
to figure it out, we realize that there's a reason 
why it doesn't quite make sense to us. It's because 
it doesn't quite make sense." (101) 

A CDO, in their view, was essentially just a pile of 
triple-B-rated mortgage bonds. Wall Street firms had 
conspired with the rating agencies to represent the 
pile as a diversified collection of assets, but anyone 
with eyes could see that if one triple-B subprime mortgage 
went bad, most would go bad, as they were all vulnerable 
to the same economic forces. Subprime mortgage loans 
in Florida would default for the same reasons, and 
at the same time, as subprime mortgage loans in California. 
And yet fully 80 percent of the CDO composed of nothing 
but triple-B bonds was rated higher than triple-B: 
triple-A, double-A, or A. To wipe out any triple-B 
bond--the ground floor of the building--all that was 
needed was a 7 percent loss in the underlying pool 
of home loans. That same 7 percent loss would thus 
wipe out, entirely, any CDO made up of triple-B bonds, 
no matter what rating was assigned it. "It took us 
weeks to really grasp it because it was so weird," 
said Charlie. "But the more we looked at what a CDO 
really was, the more we were like, Holy shit, that's 
just fucking crazy. That's fraud. Maybe you can't prove 
it in a court of law. But it's fraud." (103) 

The definition of an intelligent manager in the hedge 
fund world is someone who has the right idea, and sees 
his investors abandon him just before the idea pays 
off." When he was making them huge sums of money, he 
had barely heard from them; the moment he started actually 
to lose a little, they peppered him with their doubts 
and suspicions:So I take it the monster dragging us 
out to sea is the CDS. You have created the plight 
of the old man and the sea.When do you see the end 
of the bleeding? (August down again 5%.) Are you running 
a riskier strategy now?You make me physically ill.... 
How dare you?Can you explain to me how we keep losing 
money on this position? If our potential losses are 
fixed it would seem to me based on how much we have 
lost that they should be a tiny part of the portfolio 
now. (144) 

(Michael Burry) 
He'd always been different from what one might expect 
a hedge fund manager to be. He wore the same shorts 
and t-shirts to work for days on end. He refused to 
wear shoes with laces. He refused to wear watches or 
even his wedding ring. To calm himself at work he often 
blared heavy metal music. "I think these personal foibles 
of mine were tolerated among many as long as things 
were going well," he said. "But when things weren't 
going well, they became signs of incompetence or instability 
on my part--even among employees and business partners." 
(148) 

The line between gambling and investing is artificial 
and thin. The soundest investment has the defining 
trait of a bet (you losing all of your money in hopes 
of making a bit more), and the wildest speculation 
has the salient characteristic of an investment (you 
might get your money back with interest). Maybe the 
best definition of "investing" is "gambling with the 
odds in your favor." The people on the short side of 
the subprime mortgage market had gambled with the odds 
in their favor. The people on the other side--the entire 
financial system, essentially--had gambled with the 
odds against them. Up to this point, the story of the 
big short could not be simpler. What's strange and 
complicated about it, however, is that pretty much 
all the important people on both sides of the gamble 
left the table rich. Steve Eisman and Michael Burry 
and the young men at Cornwall Capital each made tens 
of millions of dollars for themselves, of course. Greg 
Lippmann was paid $47 million in 2007, although $24 
million of it was in restricted stock that he could 
not collect unless he hung around Deutsche Bank for 
a few more years. But all of these people had been 
right; they'd been on the winning end of the bet. Wing 
Chau's CDO managing business went bust, but he, too, 
left with tens of millions of dollars--and had the 
nerve to attempt to create a business that would buy 
up, cheaply, the very same subprime mortgage bonds 
in which he had lost billions of dollars' worth of 
other people's money. Howie Hubler lost more money 
than any single trader in the history of Wall Street--and 
yet he was permitted to keep the tens of millions of 
dollars he had made. The CEOs of every major Wall Street 
firm were also on the wrong end of the gamble. All 
of them, without exception, either ran their public 
corporations into bankruptcy or were saved from bankruptcy 
by the United States government. They all got rich, 
too. (191) 

The people in a position to resolve the financial crisis 
were, of course, the very same people who had failed 
to foresee it: Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson, future 
Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner, Fed Chairman Ben 
Bernanke, Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein, Morgan 
Stanley CEO John Mack, Citigroup CEO Vikram Pandit, 
and so on. A few Wall Street CEOs had been fired for 
their roles in the subprime mortgage catastrophe, but 
most remained in their jobs, and they, of all people, 
became important characters operating behind the closed 
doors, trying to figure out what to do next. With them 
were a handful of government officials--the same government 
officials who should have known a lot more about what 
Wall Street firms were doing, back when they were doing 
it. All shared a distinction: They had proven far less 
capable of grasping basic truths in the heart of the 
U.S. financial system than a one-eyed money manager 
with Asperger's syndrome. (194) 

Most of 2006 and early 2007 Dr. Michael Burry had experienced 
as a private nightmare. In an e-mail, he wrote, "The 
partners closest to me tend to ultimately hate me.... 
This business kills a part of life that is pretty essential. 
The thing is, I haven't identified what it kills. But 
it is something vital that is dead inside of me. I 
can feel it." As his interest in financial markets 
seeped out of him, he bought his first guitar. It was 
strange: He couldn't play the guitar and had no talent 
for it. He didn't even want to play the guitar. He 
just needed to learn all about the sorts of wood used 
to make guitars, and to buy guitars and tubes and amps. 
He just needed to...know everything there was to know 
about guitars. 
He'd picked an intelligent moment for the death of 
his interest. It was the moment at which the end was 
written: the moment at which there was nothing left 
to prevent. Six months from that moment, the International 
Monetary Fund would put losses on U.S.-originated subprime-related 
assets at a trillion dollars. One trillion dollars 
in losses had been created by American financiers, 
out of whole cloth, and embedded in the American financial 
system. Each Wall Street firm held some share of those 
losses, and could do nothing to avoid them. No Wall 
Street firm would be able to extricate itself, as there 
were no longer any buyers. It was as if bombs of differing 
sizes had been placed in virtually every major Western 
financial institution. The fuses had been lit and could 
not be extinguished. All that remained was to observe 
the speed of the spark, and the size of the explosions. 
(169) 

All of them, including Eisman, thought Eisman was temperamentally 
less than perfectly suited to making short-term trading 
judgments. He was emotional, and he acted on his emotions. 
His bets against subprime mortgage bonds were to him 
more than just bets; he intended them almost as insults. 
Whenever Wall Street people tried to argue--as they 
often did--that the subprime lending problem was caused 
by the mendacity and financial irresponsibility of 
ordinary Americans, he'd say, "What--the entire American 
population woke up one morning and said, 'Yeah, I'm 
going to lie on my loan application'? Yeah, people 
lied. They lied because they were told to lie." The 
outrage that fueled his gamble was aimed not at the 
entire financial system but at the people at the top 
of it, who knew better, or should have: the people 
inside the big Wall Street firms. "It was more than 
an argument," Eisman said. "It was a moral crusade. 
The world was upside down." The subprime loans at the 
bottom of their gamble were worthless, he argued, and 
if the loans were worthless, the insurance they owned 
on those loans should go nowhere but up. And so they 
held on to their credit default swaps, and waited for 
more loans to default. "Vinny and I would have done 
fifty million dollars and made twenty-five million 
dollars," said Danny. "Steve did five hundred and fifty 
million and made four hundred million." (171) 

"The banks in the United States are only beginning 
to come to grips with their massive loan problems. 
For instance, I wouldn't own a single bank in the State 
of Florida because I think they might all be gone."10:02. 
Bear 29 
last!!!!"The upper classes of this country raped this 
country. You fucked people. You built a castle to rip 
people off. Not once in all these years have I come 
across a person inside a big Wall Street firm who was 
having a crisis of conscience. Nobody ever said, 'This 
is wrong.' And no one ever gave a shit about what I 
had to say." 
Actually, Eisman  (174) 

The people rising out of the hole in the ground on 
the northeast corner of Madison Avenue and Forty-seventh 
Street at 6:40 in the morning revealed a great deal 
about themselves, if you knew what to look for. Anyone 
in that place at that time probably worked on Wall 
Street, for instance. The people emerging from the 
holes surrounding Penn Station, where Vincent Daniel's 
train arrived at exactly the same time, weren't so 
easy to predict. "Vinny's morning train is only fifty-five 
percent financial, because that's where the construction 
workers come in," said Danny Moses. "Mine's ninety-five." 
To the untrained eye, the Wall Street people who rode 
from the Connecticut suburbs to Grand Central were 
an undifferentiated mass, but within that mass Danny 
noted many small and important distinctions. If they 
were on their BlackBerrys, they were probably hedge 
fund guys, checking their profits and losses in the 
Asian markets. If they slept on the train they were 
probably sell-side people--brokers, who had no skin 
in the game. Anyone carrying a briefcase or a bag was 
probably not employed on the sell side, as the only 
reason you'd carry a bag was to haul around brokerage 
research, and the brokers didn't read their own reports--at 
least not in their spare time. Anyone carrying a copy 
of the New York Times was probably a lawyer or a back-office 
person or someone who worked in the financial markets 
without actually 
being in the markets. Their clothes told you a lot, 
too. The guys who ran money dressed as if 
they were going to a Yankees game. Their financial 
performance was supposed to be all that mattered about 
them, and so it caused suspicion if they dressed too 
well. If you saw a buy-side guy in a suit, it usually 
meant that he was in trouble, or scheduled to meet 
with someone who had given him money, or both. Beyond 
that, it was hard to tell much about a buy-side person 
from what he was wearing. The sell side, on the other 
hand, might as well have been wearing their business 
cards: The guy in the blazer and khakis was a broker 
at a second-tier firm; the guy in the three-thousand-dollar 
suit and the hair just so was an investment banker 
at J.P. Morgan or someplace like that. Danny could 
guess where people worked by where they sat on the 
train. The Goldman Sachs, Deutsche Bank, and Merrill 
Lynch people, who were headed downtown, edged to the 
front--though when Danny thought about it, few Goldman 
people actually rode the train anymore. They all had 
private cars. Hedge fund guys such as himself worked 
uptown and so exited Grand Central to the north, where 
taxis appeared haphazardly and out of nowhere to meet 
them, like farm trout rising to corn kernels. The Lehman 
and Bear Stearns people used to head for the same exit 
as he did, but they were done. One reason why, on September 
18, 2008, there weren't nearly as many people on the 
northeast corner of Forty-seventh Street and Madison 
Avenue at 6:40 in the morning as there had been on 
September 18, 2007. 
Danny noticed many little things about his fellow financial 
man--that was his job, in a way. To notice the little 
things. Eisman was the big-picture guy. Vinny was the 
analyst. Danny, the head trader, was their eyes and 
ears on the market. Their source for the sort of information 
that never gets broadcast or written down: rumors, 
the behavior of the sell-side brokers, the patterns 
on the screens. His job was to be alive to detail, 
quick with numbers--and to avoid getting fucked. 
To that end he kept five computer screens on his desk. 
One scrolled newswires, another showed moment-to-moment 
movements inside their portfolio, the other three scrolled 
Danny's conversations with maybe forty Wall Street 
brokers and fellow investors. His e-mail in-box for 
the month contained 33,000 messages. To an outsider, 
this torrent of picayune detail about the financial 
markets would have been disorienting. To him it all 
made sense, as long as he didn't really need to make 
sense of it. Danny was the small-picture guy. 
By Thursday, September 18, 2008, however, the big picture 
had grown so unstable that the small picture had become 
nearly incoherent to him. On Monday, Lehman Brothers 
had filed for bankruptcy, and Merrill Lynch, 
having announced $55.2 billion in losses on subprime 
bond-backed CDOs, had sold itself to Bank of America. 
The U.S. stock market had fallen by more than it had 
since the first day of trading after the attack on 
the World Trade Center. On Tuesday the U.S. Federal 
Reserve announced that it had lent $85 billion to the 
insurance company AIG, to pay off the losses on the 
subprime credit default swaps AIG had sold to Wall 
Street banks--the biggest of which was the $13.9 billion 
AIG owed to Goldman Sachs. When you added in the $8.4 
billion in cash AIG had already forked over to Goldman 
in collateral, you saw that Goldman had transferred 
more than $20 billion in subprime mortgage bond risk 
into the insurance company, which was in one way or 
another being covered by the U.S. taxpayer. That fact 
alone was enough to make everyone wonder at once how 
much more of this stuff was out there, and who owned 
it. (177) 


* The "spread" on any bond is simply the difference 
between the interest rate it pays to the investor, 
and some putatively risk-free rate--say, the rate paid 
to investors in U.S. Treasury bonds. (200) 
* A brief reminder: In thinking about these towers 
of debt, it's handy to simplify them into three floors: 
a basement, called the "equity," which takes the very 
first losses and is not an investment-grade security; 
the lower floor, called the "mezzanine," with triple-B 
rating; and the upper floor, with triple-A rating, 
and generally referred to as the "senior." In practice, 
the towers were far more finely sliced: a CDO might 
have fifteen different tranches, each with a slightly 
different rating, from triple-B-minus all the way up 
to triple-A: triple-B-minus, triple-B, A-minus, A, 
and so on. The double-A rating of the tranche shorted 
by Cornwall Capital implied that the underlying bonds, 
though slightly more risky than supposedly gold-plated 
triple-As, still had a less than 1 percent chance of 
defaulting. 
(201) 






