Cloudera Morphlines: open source framework used to 
integrate, 
build, and change Hadoop processing applications that 
extract, transform, or load data into Apache Solr, 
Hbase, HDFS, 
data warehouses, or analytic dashboards. 

What is a morphline? Morphline is a config file that 
makes it easy to define a transformation chain
that is flexible with multiple types of data sources. 
CONFIG that processes and loads data into Hadoop. 
Replaces Java programming with simple config steps, 
thus reducing the cost and integration effort with 
developing, maintaining or integrating custom ETL projects. 

Morphline: (in memory container of transformation commands) 
A record is an in-memory data structure of name-vale 
pairs with 
optional blob attachments or POJO attachments. 

Rich confi file that makes it easy to define a transofmration 
chain that consumes any kind of data source, processes 
data, and loads 
results into a hadoop component 


"Morphlines replaces Java programming with simple config 
steps, reducing the cost and effort of doing custom 
ETL: 
Morphline creates an efficient way to consume records 
(Flume events, HDFS files, RDBMS tables, Apache Avro 
objects) 

A record is a set of named fields where each field 
has an ordered list 
of one or more values. 
A value can be any Java Object. 
A record is essentially a hash table, where each hash 
table entry contains 
a String key, and a list of Java objects as values 

""a record can contain an optional field named _attachment_body, 
which can be a Java java.io.InputStream or Java byte[]"" 

Morphline configuration file is implemented using HOCON 
format 
(human optimized config object notation) 

GROK-Dictionary: config file that contains prefabricated 
regular expressions that can be referred to by name 

Data parsing is a method used to convert data from 
one 
format to another

Downside of building your own parser: 
-Hire and train a whole in-house team to build the 
parser 
-Maintenace == cost 
-Buy servers fast enough to parse data 

Kubernates: container deployment. Automate the container 
deployment 
process. Can spin up docker on-demand to execute tasks 
You can define how much CPU, RAM, Network, Docker Container 
to use 

Kereberos Authentication 
LDAP
SENTRY : RPC service that stores authorization metadata 
in an 
underlying relational database and provides RPC interfaces 
to retrieve and manipulate priviledges 
Supports secure access to services using kerberos 

Jenkins is a free / open source automation server. 
It helps automate the software development related 
to building, testing, deploying, and facilitating continous 
integration and 
continous delivery.
Server container that runs on Apache tomcat.
Contiguous delivery pipeline automated expression of 
your process 
for getting software from version control right through 
to your 
users and customers. 
