Good are tangible items: what, iron ore, tables, oranges, etc.
Service are intangible
An economy's output is measured by GDP (gross domestic product):
The total value of all final goods and services produced in an economy in a
specified time period

Nominal GDP is the value of the relevant output obtained by using the prices
of the time period for which GDP is being found. GDP in current dollars
Real GDP is the output in GDP valued with the prices of a time period called
the base period.

Gross national product: A country's GDP measures only output produced within
the country GNP measures the output produced by a country's factors of
production, no matter where those factors are located. (Factors of production,
refer to inputs such as human labor, machinery, land, entrepreneurial skills
used in production of goods and services)

Consumer price index: CPI measures the price level of a basket of goods
and services purchased by a typical consumer

Producer price index: (aka wholesale price index): measures the average
price received by producers of goods and services (The price of these
will generally differ from what consumers pay because goods, for example,
usually go through immediate dealers before reaching the consumer)

A fixed set of commodities and services is priced at regular intervals
to obtain the PPI index

Inflation is a rise in the average price level. Inflation rate is measured
by the percentage change in price index. Rising inflation can quickly become a
problem for people as rising prices increase the cost of living.

Every country has a central bank, that is responsible for management of the money
supply and the regulation of the banking system. US: Federal Reserve, UK: Bank of England

Fiscal policy: government spending and taxes
Bond: a bond is analogous to a loan made by the person by the person buying
the bond to the issuer of the bond.

A bond is therefore a certificate of indebtedness issued to a lender by
a borrower to indicate a sum of money has been borrowed.
Face Value: amount to be repaid by the borrower
Maturity date: date when repayment has to be made
Interest rate (coupon interest rate): the borrower has to pay the lender each year
for the privilege of using the lender's funds
Bonds (fixed income securities). One reason people buy bonds is to earn income
from the interest paid by the issuer of the bonds
If interest rates rise/fall, the price of existing bonds will fall/rise

The price at which a bond sells in the secondary market is the current price
of the bond. The current yield of the bond in percent is the annual coupon
interest payment divided by the current price of the bond and multiplied
by 100 to get it as a percentage:

% current yield = (coupon interest payment) x 100 / current price of bond
Bond exercise:

you bought a bond issued by the IBM corporation for $1000 in 2016. You are
to be paid $150 in interest each year and the bond matures in ten years.
par value of the bond = $1000
coupon interest rate = (150/1000) * 100 = 15%
date of maturity: 2016
stream of payment you will receive from IBM: $150 each year from 2007 to 2015,
then $150 plus the par value of $1000 in 2016

you have a bond with a par value of $1000 that earns a coupon interest of
$100 each year. Bonds of $1000 par value are currently being issued with
a coupon interest of 6%. Would you sell your bond to me for a $1000, for
less than $1000, or for more than $1000? Explain.
Suppose a year from now bonds are being issued with a 15% coupon interest.
Do you think I will pay $1000 for your bond then? Explain.

Answer: Your bond with a par value of $1000 earns you $100 a year. Currently
issued bonds will only give you 6% ($60). Your $1000 bond therefore
earns more than currently issued $1000 bonds, so you should ask for
more than $1000 for it.

If a year from now bonds are being issued at 15% coupon interest
( = $150 coupon payment on a $1000 par value), I would want to pay
less than $1000 for your bond because it only has a $100 interest payment.

Credit risk, default risk, risk of principal
Interest rate risk: risk of the price of bond declining as interest rates rise
inflation risk: risk of the decline in the purchasing power of the value of
bond if inflation occurs. If inflation is rising, issuers of bonds will have
to offer higher interest rates to compensate
potential bondholders for the inflation risk

A stock represents ownership of a company. When a company issues bonds it is
borrowing which means it incurs debt it is obligated to repay later
The bondholders have no ownership of the company, they are only creditors
who have lent to the company. When a company issues stock the holders
of the stock become owners of the company. However if a firm goes
bankrupt its bondholders have "seniority" meaning they are legally
entitled to be paid before stockholders

yld% lists the dividend expressed as a percentage of the current price
of the stock - $1.36/$43.35 X 100 = 3%

"PE" lists the price to earnings ratio of the stock - the current price
of the stock dividend by the company's earnings per share over the
last four quarters.

Types of stocks
Blue chip stock: blue chips have the highest values. Internationally
recognized, well established companies in excellent financial condition.
Defensive stock: stocks of companies that are likely to continue to do well
even if the overall economy is in recession. Companies selling food, soft
drinks, tobacco, candy, and providing essential services such as gas
and electricity are likely to be defensive.

Growth stock: the stock of a company that has earnings and market share
growth greater than its industry and the economy-wide aversive

Cyclical stock: stock of companies whose earnings depend heavily on
how well the economy is doing. Cyclical stocks do well when the company
is experiencing good growth and do poorly when the economy is
contracting.

Income stocks: stocks of companies that pay high dividends and are therefore
attractive to people (retirees) who want to rely on these
dividends as a source of income.

DOW Jones industrial average is an index of the prices of 30 blue chip stocks
of US companies that are leaders in diverse industries such as financial services,
technology, retail, entertainment, and consumer goods.

NASDAQ Composite index measure the price of all domestic and international
based common type stocks listed on the nasdaq stock market. it includes
over 3000 companies and is one of the most widely followed stock market
indexes.

The S&P 500 index covers 500 stocks chosen for market size, liquidity and industry
grouping. The stocks in this index are determined by an S&P index committee
comprising of a team of analysts and economists from S&Ps company.
