Risks associated with owning rental properties
rent fluctuations 
liability 
vacany 
fair housing pitfalls 
natural / man made problems 
difficult tenants 

* Ask you agent to explain the actual cash value (ACV) verses replacement cost value (RCV) 
* The only way to control time investment is to detach fro mthe emotional side of your investment 
** Avoid personal relationships with your tenants 
* Find an attorney before problems arise 

Four traits of good landlords: emotional detachment; risk management; committment; professionalism 

When you buy a house:  Ask how old is the roof, appliances, etc. 

Single family: less people; less problems (no income due to vacancy) 
Multi family: more revanue; conflcits can arise between tenants
ROI for multi family >> single family

What tenants look for in a property: 
location 
square footage; beds; bath 
condition / features 
curb appeal / landscapping 
appliances / construction standrards 
flooring;
proper heating & cooling 
exterior compopnents 
garages / outbuildings
reliable utilities / services 
few busy streets 
location relative to fire department, EMS, police, trains station, airport, freeway 
low crime rate 
other good looking homes 

tenats will most likely not take care of the landscapping 
If I rent out a property with a lwan, hire a landscapper 

Flooring: wood is the best choice, be sure to maintain it.
Carper is cheap and can help cover up uneven floors; dated surfaces; cat-piss is difficult to clean 

HEATING 
electic is expensive 
wood is dangerous 

COOLING 
replace the air conditioning filters. Clogged AC units require more current and stressess the system 
Most AC units are smart enoujgh to monitor this 

Flood detector
If you live somwhere with extrememe temperatures, send a notification to your tenants
emergency water shut off 
emergency space heaters 
light bulb replacements 
filters (furnace and refrigerator) 
clogged drains and garbage disposals 
sewer line backups 
irrigation equip[ment / landscaping 
water spigots 
water cleaning  

PETS 
$25 - $100 extra for a pet 
pet hair and dander
scratches from their claws 
landscaping and public nuisance 
urine stains and smells 
* Add this in your advertisement: Pets allowed at the landlords discretion  

Its crucial to maintain a professional relationship with your tenants and to be respectful and courteous, but you must 
also maintain suspicion at all times 
If your interactions leave you with a gut feeling that a tenant is going to be difficult, consider 
options to avoid renting to them 
Turnover and associated vacancy is the largest detriment to revanue 
Credit, criminal, past residence checks
-> past residence checks can be covered up / spotty 

A credit score or FICO score is generated from an algorithm specific to the company providing the source
For self employed employees get a bank statement and tax records
Good tenant selection is very important. It is difficult which is why some people use a propety management company 

Legal documents are supposed to be confusing so that landlords & their attorneys have leverage. Anything 
written in the lease is open to interpretation  by either party so make sure you trust and understand 
your lease and attorney.

If you write a lease spell out specific responsibilities rather than blanket statements. 
This will give you weight in your position.

Remind the tenant that they were not forced to sign anything. As a landlord it is presumed 
that you haev an economic advantage, over your tenant, and therefore most courts of law 
are biased in the tenant's favor. 

Millenials do not know how to do basic taks: tightening doorknobs, adjusting plates, replacing light bulbs, 
aligning cabinent hinges.

DIY Turnover: 
headlamp
utility knife (standard razer blade) 
glass scraping tool 
screwdriver 
adjustable crescent wrench 
power screwdriver or power drill with a bit set 
a hammer and a nail set 
locking pliers 
tape measure 

Advanced management 
Evictions: Find a workaround and move on. Evictions are expensive for the landlord and the tenant. 

Your most valuable resouces: trustworthy contractors and handymen. 
They must be:
reliable and timely 
trustworthy 
A broad base of knowledge 
Able to work unsupervised 
Keep you informed 
A good personality 
Correctly priced services 
Committed to your needs 

Tips for vetting contractors 
Do they work with property managers?
How big is the contractor's company?
Do they have insurance?
Do they warranty their work? (free estimates / check online reviews) 

What to look for in a propety manager?
They manage tenant selection 
They have experience supervising an extensive contractor base 
Keeps the book organized 
Has comprehensive lease & legal representation 
Responsive & timely 