On writing well

Every profession has its growing arsenal of jargon 
to throw dust in the eyes of the populace. The list 
would be tedious. Beware, then, of the long word that’s 
no longer than the short word: “assistance” (help), 
“numerous” (many), “facilitate” (ease), “remainder” 
(rest), initial (first)” … Don’t inflate what 

Technique to identify word clutter: put brackets around 
every component in a piece of writing that wasn’t 
doing useful work. Often just one word or sentence 
got bracketed: the unnecessary preposition appended 
to a verb (“order up”) or the adverb that carries 
the same meaning as the verb (“smile happily”), 
or the adjective that states a known fact (“tall 

Don’t repeat what was previously stated. 

Look for the clutter in your writing and prune it ruthlessly. 
Be grateful for everything you can throw away. Reexamine 
Is every word doing new work? 
Can any thought be expressed with more economy? Is 
Are you hanging on to something useless just because 
Simplify, simplify.

Never say anything in writing that you wouldn’t comfortably 

Therefore ask yourself some basic questions before 
you start. For example: "In what capacity am I going 
to address the reader?" (Reporter? Provider of information? 
Average man or woman?) "What pronoun and tense am I 
going to use?" "What style?" (Impersonal reportorial? 
Personal but formal? Personal and casual?) "What attitude 
am I going to take toward the mate- rial?" (Involved? 
Detached? Judgmental? Ironic? Amused?) "How much do 
I want to cover?" "What one point do I want to make?" 

Use active verbs unless there is no comfortable way 
to get around using a passive verb (69). “Joe saw 
Most adverbs are unnecessary. You will clutter your 
sentence and annoy the reader if you. Choose a verb 
that has a specific meaning and then add an adverb 
that carries the same meaning. Strong verbs are weakened 

Most adjectives are unnecessary. Some nouns denote 
and describe the adjective implicitly. (Dirt is brown, 


Eliminate every such fact that is a known attribute: 
don't tell us that the sea had waves and the sand was 

Any organization that won't take the trouble to be 
both clear and personal in its writing will lose friends, 
customers and money. Let me put it another way for 
business executives: a shortfall will be experienced 

What is crucial for you as the writer is to express 
your opinion firmly. Don't cancel its strength with 

Never hesitate to imitate another writer. Imitation 
is part of the creative process for anyone learning 
an art or a craft. Bach and Picasso didn't spring full-blown 
as Bach and Picasso; they needed models. This is especially 
true of writing. Find the best writers in the fields 
that interest you and read their work aloud. Get their 
voice and their taste into your ear—their attitude 
toward language. Don't worry that by imitating them 
you'll lose your own voice and your own identity. Soon 
enough you will shed those skins and become who you 


