Quants practice quantitative finance. The subject is 
an interdisciplinary mix 
of physics inspired models, mathematical techniques, 
computer science, 
all aimed at the validation of financial securities. 
Best quantitative 
finance brings real insights into the relation between 
value and uncertainty. 
Physicists on Wall Street build models, models to determine 
the value of 
securities. Stocks are commonplace securities. An option 
is a bet that the 
stock price will rise. An option is a special case 
of a general derivative 
security, a contract whose value is derived from the 
value of some other 
simpler underlying security on which it rests.

Traders spend a majority of the day watching screens, 
assimilating economic information, page frantically 
through spreadsheets, 
run programs written by quants, enter trades, talk 
to salespeople, brokers, 
and punch keys. Wall streets behavior is manic depressive. 
Fast or famine 
style of hiring and firing, expanding and contracting, 
larges raises follow by large cuts -- all mirrored 
in the waxing 
and waving of the food supply.

I am proud of the struggle - preserving as much as 
mathematics has 
stood me in good read on wall street as well as academia. 
(7 years to complete a PhD when trying to discover 
something new in any field, 
one has to spend many years thinking, making false 
starts, 
wandering down blind alleys, and stumbling down into 
ditches, 
only to emerge again and keep going).

Postdoctoral life = priest hood.
Blissful apothesosis of a life dedicated to knowledge. 
Top universities: no mundane obligations such as teaching, 
administrating, fixed hours. 
Find something worthwhile and work on it.
Everyone worked to achieve something great,
and was willing to spend a lifetime doing it.
Some professors would stop doing work once they reach 
“tenure status” “publish or perish” 

MPP: masive parallel processing - Hadoop stores structure 
and unstructured data, 
tag and value, HDFS, HBASE, HIVE, AVRO, parquet.
Each clustered servers have their own memory, disc, 
and operating system. 

Descriptive statistics: visualizes the basic features 
of the data being studied. 
Inferential statistics: drawing conclusions on a smaller 
subset of the population. 

Data mining: automation / exploratory statistical analysis 
on a large scale 
databases. The goal is to extract patterns, and knowledge 
from large-scale 
datasets so that they can be reshaped into a more understandable 
structure 
for later analysis.

Non-technical companies see technology as a second 
priority and leave 
software projects to be siloed into business units. 
This leads to technical sprawl, which manifests when 
different business units 
implement their own initiatives without consulting 
each other; 
build conflicting / incompatible solutions; compromise 
security; 
overload IT who are to manage and monitor this

Machine learning (ML engineers)
Build machine learning solutions to solve businesses, 
and customer problems. Deploy models, manage infrastructure, 
and run operations related to machine learning operations, 
often collaborate with data scientist / engineers to 
manage databases 
and build data infrastructure to support products and 
services used by customers. 

Mathematical aptitude: a background in mathematics 
and statistics is far 
more valued in machine learning than in traditional 
software engineering. 
Training ML models requires a sufficient background 
to understand which 
algorithms to apply and how to interpret and improve 
upon the results. 
For cutting edge AI - research positions, advanced 
mathematical intuition 
is a prerequisite in order to design and develop novel 
methodologies. 
