Notes From: The Manager's Path A Guide For Tech Leaders 
Navigating Growth & Change 
Refresh Date: 02.06.2021

If you are interested in proving on purely the people 
management side of leadership, 
books like First, Break All The Rules are excellent 
references (xii) 

** REFERENCE:  
**Page 40 - 44 : 
**Life of an individual contributor
**Life of a manager (43) 
**What's A CTO : (166) 
**What's A VP : (164)


Another reference: Programming Pearl

What to expect from a manager?
Some like the begin neglect.
"Benign neglect isn’t so bad when you consider some 
of the alternatives. There are the neglectful managers 
who ignore you when you need help and brush your concerns 
aside, who avoid meeting with you and who never give 
you feedback, only to tell you suddenly that you are 
not meeting expectations or not qualified to be promoted. 
And of course there are micromanagers who question 
every detail of everything you do and refuse to let 
you make any decisions on your own. Still worse are 
actively abusive managers who neglect you until they 
want to yell at you for something. Sadly, all of these 
characters are walking around our companies, wreaking 
havoc on the mental health of their teams. When you 
believe that these are the only alternatives, a manager 
who leaves you alone most of the time unless you specifically 
ask for help doesn’t seem so bad at all." (2) 

There are, however, other options. Managers who care 
about you as a person, and who actively work to help 
you grow in your career. Managers who teach you important 
skills and give you valuable feedback. Managers who 
help you navigate difficult situations, who help you 
figure out what you need to learn. Managers who want 
you to take their job someday. And most importantly, 
managers who help you understand what is important 
to focus on, and enable you to have that focus" (2) 

1:1s: Purpose: create a human conenction between you 
and your manager. 
1.) Let you manager into your life a little bit, because 
when there are stressful things happening (a death 
in the family, a new child, breakup, housing woes) 
it will be much easier to ask your manager for time 
off or tell him what you need if he has context on 
you as a person. 
Great managers notice when your normal energy level 
changes, and will hopefully care enough to ask you 
about it. 
"The bedrock of strong teams is human connection which 
leads to trust." To establish trust, this requires 
the willingness to be vulnerable in front of each other. 
2.) Speak with your manager regarding matters that 
need to be discussed. Sometimes plan ahead of time, 
what you want 
to discuss with your manager. Do not eliminate 1:1s 
completely. Bi-weekly ones are ok, or every week. "Use 
them as 
you need them, and if you find that you want to meet 
more frequently, ask your manager for that" (3) 

Good 1:1s are not status meetings. "If you are a manager 
reporting to senior management, you can use 1:1s to 
discuss status 
of critical projects, or projects that are still in 
the nascent stage. If you're an individual contributor, 
though, a 
1:1 as a status meeting is repetitive and probably 
boring. If your 1:1 is a dreadful obligation for delivering 
a 
boring status report, try using email or chat for that 
purpose instead to free up time, and bringing some 
topics of your 
own to the 1:1

I encourage you to share the responsibility of having 
good 1-1s with your manager. Come with an agenda of 
things you would like to discuss. Prepare for the time 
yourself. If he cancels or reschedules on you regularly, 
push him to find a time that is more stable, and if 
this isn’t possible, verify the day before (or that 
morning, for an afternoon meeting) that you will be 
meeting and share with him anything you are interested 
in discussing so he knows you want to meet. 
" (3) 

Good managers provide feedback. Ideally they provide 
feedback as soon as you screw up. Feedback is data 
points that 
can help you improve and grow. "The sooner you know 
about your bad habits, the easier they are to correct". 
"A great manager will notice some of the little things 
you're doing well in your day-to-day, and recognize 
you for them. Keep trakc of this feedback, good and 
bad, and use it when you write your self-review for 
the year". 

Sometimes praise -> public, criticism -> private 
For presentations, get feedback on the content (second 
per review). Asking your manager for advice is also 
a good way 
to show that you respect them. "People like to feel 
helpful, and managers are not immune to this sort of 
flattery". 

Managers: 
->Training and career growth progression; feedback; 
promotions; resolving issues (internally) 

*Ask your manager for specific areas to focus on in 
order to get that promotion. Good managers know what 
the system is looking for and can help you build those 
achievements and skills. 

Realize that stretching yourself is about more than 
just learning new technologies: great CTOs have strong 
communication skills, project management skills, and 
product sense, in addition to good technical sense. 
However, you also want to spend a lot of time writing 
code, and getting really good at understanding how 
high-quality code is written. (22) 

How to be managed.
Know what you want. The onus of figuring out what you 
want to do, what you want to learn, and what will make 
you happy rests on your shoulders.(22) 
"It's a pretty universal truth that once you get the 
job you thought you wanted, the enjoyment eventually 
fades and you find yourself looking for something else". 
(23) 
You are responsible for yourself. Ask, and chase to 
reach your goals. 
Give your manager a break. Managers job is to do what 
is best for the company and team. 
When you have a problem, instead of demanding that 
your manager solve it for you, try asking her for advice 
on how she might approach the problem. Asking for advice 
is always a good way to show respect and trust. (25) 

How to be a good mentor.
Patient, Hand Holding, Collaborative

How to mentor an intern.
Even if you company does not love him, you want him 
to love 
you, because they will go back and tell all their colleagues 
about their experience. 
This can have a major impact on your ability to hire 
full-time from the graduating class. 
Somtimes they can feel intimidated because they do 
not want to look stupid. They are probably nervous 
abnout screwing this opportunity up. 
Check in frequency. (minimum is once a week, sometimes 
even once a day). 
Ideally the intern leaves on good terms. (12) 

Mentoring a new hire. 
Good hires will ask questions. Do pair programming. 
New hire mentors are responsible for smooth onboarding, 
helping this person adjust to life in the company effectively, 
and building your and her network of contacts in the 
company. 
How does work get done?
What are the rules, spoken, unspoken?
Good times have good onboarding documentation. These 
documents should gradually evolve to meet the changes 
of the workplace 
"Mentoring a new hire by helping her work through the 
documents, and having her modify those documents 
with any surprises she encounters during onboarding, 
provides a powerful message of commitment to her. It 
shows her that she has the power and obliga- tion to 
learn, and to share what she’s learned for the benefit 
of your whole team." (17) 

When you are a mentee.
Figure out what you want from this relationship, and 
come prepared to your sessions. 

Key Takeaways for the mentor
Be curious and open-minded
"When faced with a mentee's questions, you can start 
to observe what about your organization is not so obvious 
to a new person" (25) 
Listen and speak their language
Make connections
Accessing your experience

30/60/90
Set realistic goals
Contributing to the team's onboarding documentation 
Would you like a weekly summary of my progress via 
email? 
How long should I work alone trying to solve a problem 
before reaching out for help? (33)
Mondays and Fridays are bad for 1:1s 
Adjusting 1:1s

How often do you interact with this person offhand 
during the week? If we interact frequently, we may 
not need a weekly 
How much coaching does this person need? (Juniors prefer 
a little more time vs seniors who are in the groove) 
How much does this person push information to you? 
How good is your relationship with this person?
How stable or unstable are things in the team or the 
company? 

1:1 styles
-The to-do list meeting
-The catch up
-The feedback meeting (good for performance isues) 
-Progress Report (Getting progress reports from people 
you’re already working closely with is a waste of 
time because all you’re hearing about is the delta 
of work between now and the last standup or project 
review) (72) 
-Getting to know you
-Mix it up 

72 - 73 micromanagement
Micromanagement is bad. Effective delgator is better, 
trust and control are subtle messages that revolve 
around micromanagement 
Micromanagment means a lack of trust 
Autonomy: ability to control over some part of your 
work 

Delgating effectively 
-Use the team's goals to understand which details you 
should dig into 
-Gather information from the systems before going to 
the people (source control, Git History) 
-Adjust your focus depending on the stage of projects 
-Treat the open sharing of information, good or bad, 
in a neutral to positive way 
-Create a culture of continous feedback 

How to give feedback?
-Know your people
-Observe your people
-Provide lightweight, regular Feedback
-Bonus: Provide coaching

Writing and delivering a performance review 
-Give yourself enough time, and start early 
-Try to account for the whole year, not just the past 
couple of months (Create a work log) 
-Use concrete examples, and excerpts from peer reviews 
-Spend plenty of time on accomplishments and strengths 
-When it comes to areas of improvement, keep it focused 
-Avoid big surprises
-Schedule enough time to discuss the review 

Managers job is to help their engineers get promoted. 
Their job is to make sure you are learning how to estimate 
their own work, and learn from their mistakes. 
Participation, features added to projects independently, 
on-call rotations / support, team engagement, team 
planning 
The Peter Principle: people are pormoted to their level 
of incompetence. 

Firing underperformers (70)
What is Performance Improvement Plan? (A set of clearly 
defined objectives that this person must achieve within 
a fixed period of time. If they meet all the objectives, 
they are removed from the plan, otherwise they are 
fired) 
Managers need a record of negative feedback to fire 
someone in any environment where HR is active and a 
standard performance 
improvement plan is required. If you have no HR, send 
a PiP in writing (email). This protects you legally. 
Do NOT put employees you wouldn't be to lose. Most 
smart employees will start looking for opportunities 
once they 
are informed they are on PiP 


TECH LEAD 
System architect and business analyst. 
Good communication and interpersonal skills / excellent 
technical skills 
A good sense of the overall architecture of your systems 
and a solid understanding of how to design complex 
software. 
It probably also requires you to be able to understand 
business requirements and translate them into software 
Project planning 
Software Developer and team leadership
"As you can see from these descriptions, in the process 
of being a tech lead, you have to act as a software 
developer, a systems architect, a business analyst, 
and a team leader who knows when to do something single-handedly, 
and when to delegate the work to others. (49)" 

Agile development is great way to think about work 
because it forces you to focus on breaking tasks down 
into smaller chunks, planning those smaller chunks 
out, delivering value incrementally instead of all 
at once (51) 
Infrastructure, Platform, or System projects usually 
do not conform to agile methodlogies do to scope 
Project managers sometimes cause waterfall development 
Project planning: "enforce the self discipline to think 
about the project in some depth before diving in and 
seeing what happens" (52) 

Managing a project (38 
-Break down the work 
-Push through the details and the unknowns 
-Run the project and adjust the plan as you go
-Use insights gained in the planning process to manage 
requirements changes 
-Revisit the details as you get close to completion 

Agile Manifesto
-Individuals and interactions over processes and tools 
-Working software over comprehensive documentation 
-Customer collaboration over contract negotiation 
-responding to change over following a plan 

How to be a good tech lead
-understand your fucking architecture. 
-be a team player (work on some uninteresting parts 
and identify some of the broken parts) 
-Lead technical decisions (get you teams feedback too) 
-communicate 

Creating a strong team
-resilient to loss of individuals 
-driven to find better ways to achieve their purpose 
-first team focused 
-open to changes that serve their purpose
Faster is about the same value to the company in less 
total time (120) 

Open door policy does not always work. Only brave engineers 
will report their confusion to their managers 

What do you like best/worst about the project you are 
working on? 
Who on your team has been doing really well recently? 
Do you have any feedback about your manager—what’s 
going well, what isn’t? 
What changes do you think we could make to the product? 
Are there any opportunities you think we might be missing? 
How do you think the organization is doing overall? 
Anything we could be doing better/more/less? 
Are there any areas of the business strategy you don’t 
understand? 
What’s keeping you from doing your best work right 
now? 
How happy (or not) are you working at the company? 
What could we do to make working at the company more 
fun? 

A manager's manager: 
What can I, your manager’s manager, provide for you 
or your team? Any- thing I should be helping with? 
Is this team working poorly with any other teams, from 
your perspective? • Are there any questions about 
the larger organization that I can answer? 

Manager's problem
-unstable product roadmap
-errant tech lead 
-full time firefighting methodlogies

It's incredibly hard for a manager to justify getting 
rid of someone who produces great work, even though 
she's a drain on everyone around her - especially if 
this person is only irregularly a jerk (91) 

A manager’s job involves making it easy for her employees 
to get things done by creating fertile environments 
in which work can happen. She focuses her team so that 
they can do what they do best. She cultivates camaraderie 
and friendship on the team, and helps people learn 
new skills. In all these things, she is an ena- bler, 
a coach, and a champion. (111) 

Challenging Situation (delviering bad news) :  
Don't blast an impersonal message to a large group 
Do talk to individuals as much as possible : Where 
you need to get a message out to your whole organization, 
talk to your managers first, give them talking points, 
and then let them share with their teams before bringing 
the whole group together (175)
Don't force yourself to deliver a message you can't 
stand behind 
Do be honest about the likely outcomes 
Do think about how you would like to be told (175) 

What to do if I have a non-technical boss: 
-Don't hide information behind jargon, and be careful 
with details 
-You may need to run the 1:1s with your new boss, so 
be come prepared with a list of topics 
-Ask for advice 
-Don't be afraid to repeat yourself 
-Be supportive 
-Actively look for coaching and skill development in 
other places ( You no longer have a manager, you have 
a boss) 

“I’m sorry, I should not have yelled at you and 
I have no excuse for my bad behavior.” 
“I’m sorry, I did not listen to you and I know 
I contributed to your frustration at this situation.” 
“I’m sorry, I made a mistake when I neglected to 
tell you about Bob.” (184)

For a technical leader, True North means making sure 
that you’ve done your job getting things ready to 
go into production. It means you have honored your 
agreed-upon policies for review, operational oversight, 
and testing. It means that you won’t put something 
into production that you don’t believe is ready for 
your users to experience. It means you’re creating 
software and systems you’re proud of. (185) 

Arbinger Institute, Leadership and Self-Deception: 
Getting Out of the Box (San Francisco: Berrett-Koehler, 
2000). 
• Brené Brown, Daring Greatly: How the Courage to 
Be Vulnerable Transforms the Way We Live, Love, Parent, 
and Lead (New York: Gotham Books, 2012). 
• Peter F. Drucker, The Effective Executive (New 
York: HarperBusiness Essen- tials, 2002). 
• Marshall Goldsmith and Mark Reiter, What Got You 
Here Won’t Get You There: How Successful People Become 
Even More Successful (New York: Hyperion, 2007). 
• Andrew S. Grove, High Output Management (New York: 
Vintage Books, 1983). 
• L. David Marquet, Turn the Ship Around! A True 
Story of Turning Followers into Leaders (New York: 
Portfolio, 2012). 
n every new hire slows the team down for months because 
there is no onboarding process, that is a failure due 
to lack of structure. When people regu- larly leave 
the company because they have no path to advancement 
or career growth, that is a failure due to lack of 
structure. The third time you have a pro- duction outage 
because someone logged directly into the database and 
acciden- tally dropped a critical table, that is a 
failure due to lack of structure. (188) 

Humans form friendships with people who have significant 
shared back- ground experiences, and these experiences 
tend to closely correlate with things like schooling, 
race, class, and gender. The shortcuts you get by hiring 
friends are not usually the values you need to form 
a strong team. (202) 

Consider how the ladder relates to salary. Your HR 
department will want to use the career ladder to help 
set salary expectations. Usually, each level will have 
a salary band, or a range between a minimum and maximum 
base salary that a person in the level can earn. If 
you don’t have many lev- els, you’ll need to have 
very wide salary bands to account for the fact that 
two people within that level can perform very differently, 
and to account for the fact that engineers tend to 
expect to get salary increases frequently, especially 
in the earlier parts of their careers. (205) 

Conway's Law: Organizations which design systems are 
constrained to produce designs which are copies of 
the communication structures of these organizations. 
(209) 

--------------------------------------------------

Manager vs Individual Contributor

When transitioning into software engineering management, it's important
to realize that you're really switching career tracks (and that's okay). 

1.) Do I like working independently or helping others solve problems?
2.) Am I able to switch between various taks easily and productively?
3.) Can I be tough and empathetic?
4.) Do I want to lead?

A good software engineering manager is: trusting; 
empathetic; supportive; motivating; collaborative; clear communication;
autonomous and responsible; fostering a safe culture 

Every person, no matter who they are, is bound to face various challenges
at different points in their lives. When we experience a hurdle, the 
most important thing is to be resilient and learn from those situations. 
You should always aim to keep moving forward and to be a problem solver. 
